People who are black are more likely to be randomly stopped by police officers for no reason.
The path that supports the brain's capacity to read now favors the rapid ingestion of information.
Mostly, writing was left to professionals, and it appeared only in print.
In these teenage years, many begin to work.
That means they pay taxes.
The temptation to know more information creates an impulse to scroll through it all.
Synopsis: Mae C. Jemison was born on October 17, 1956, in Decatur, Alabama. She went to Stanford at age 16 and earned a degree in chemical engineering. She graduated from medical school at Cornell in 1981 and practiced medicine for several years. On June 4, 1987, Dr. Jemison became the first African-American woman to be admitted into the astronaut training program. On September 12, 1992, Jemison finally flew into space with six other astronauts aboard the Endeavour on mission STS-47, becoming the first African-American woman in space. In recognition of her accomplishments, Jemison has received several awards and honorary doctorates.

Early Life
Astronaut and physician Mae C. Jemison was born on October 17, 1956, in Decatur, Alabama, the youngest child of Charlie Jemison, a roofer and a carpenter, and Dorothy (Green) Jemison, an elementary school teacher. Her sister, Ada Jemison Bullock, became a child psychiatrist, and her brother, Charles Jemison, is a real estate broker. The family moved to Chicago, Illinois, when Jemison was 3 years old to take advantage of better educational opportunities there, and it is that city that she calls her hometown.

Throughout her early school years, Jemison's parents were supportive and encouraging of her talents and abilities. She spent a considerable amount of time in her school library reading about all aspects of science, especially astronomy. During her time at Morgan Park High School, she became convinced that she wanted to pursue a career in biomedical engineering. When she graduated in 1973 as a consistent honor student, she entered Stanford University at age 16 on a National Achievement Scholarship.

Initial Career Choice
As she had been in high school, Jemison was very involved in extracurricular activities at Stanford, including dance and theater productions. She served as head of the Black Student Union. She received a Bachelor of Science degree in chemical engineering from Stanford in 1977. Upon graduation, she entered Cornell University Medical College and, during her years there, found time to expand her horizons by studying in Cuba and Kenya and working at a Cambodian refugee camp in Thailand.  

After she earned her M.D. in 1981, Jemison interned at Los Angeles County/University of Southern California Medical Center and later worked as a general practitioner. For the next two-and-a-half years, she was the Area Peace Corps Medical Officer for Sierra Leone and Liberia, where she also taught and did medical research. Following her return to the United States in 1985, Jemison made a career change. She decided to follow a dream she had nurtured for a long time. In October of that year, she applied for admission to NASA's astronaut training program. The Challenger disaster of January 1986 delayed the selection process, but when she reapplied a year later, Jemison was one of the 15 candidates chosen from a field of about 2,000.

First African-American Female Astronaut
When Jemison was chosen on June 4, 1987, she became the first African-American woman to be admitted into the astronaut training program. After more than a year of training, she became the first African-American female astronaut, earning the title of science mission specialist - a job that would make her responsible for conducting crew-related scientific experiments on the space shuttle.

When Jemison finally flew into space on September 12, 1992, with six other astronauts aboard the Endeavour on mission STS-47, she became the first African-American woman in space. The first thing she saw from space was her hometown of Chicago. During her eight days in space, she conducted experiments on weightlessness and motion sickness on the crew and herself. In all, she spent more than 190 hours in space before returning to Earth on September 20, 1992. Following her historic flight, Jemison noted that society should recognize how much both women and members of other minority groups can contribute if given the opportunity.

Honors And Recognition
In recognition of her accomplishments, Jemison has received a number of accolades, including several honorary doctorates, the 1988 Essence Science and Technology Award, the Ebony Black Achievement Award in 1992, a Montgomery Fellowship from Dartmouth College in 1993 and induction into the National Women's Hall of Fame in 1993. She was also named Gamma Sigma Gamma Woman of the Year in 1990. An alternative public school in Detroit, Michigan, the Mae C. Jemison Academy, was named after her in 1992.

Jemison has been a member of several professional organizations, including the American Medical Association, the American Chemical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. She served on the board of directors of the World Sickle Cell Foundation from 1990 to 1992. She has also served as an advisory committee member of the American Express Geography Competition and an honorary board member of the Center for the Prevention of Childhood Malnutrition.

After leaving the astronaut corps in March 1993, Jemison accepted a teaching fellowship at Dartmouth. She established her own company, the Jemison Group, which researches, develops and markets advanced technologies.
In every town there's an old abandoned house or two, a forlorn-looking former residence with broken windows, an old linen curtain blowing in the wind, a roof in need of patching. Have you walked or driven past a rundown, empty house and wondered about the lives once lived inside it? The generations of children who took their first steps on its wooden floors and screamed with glee on the old tire swing still hanging from a tree in the backyard? An abandoned house says, "Move along. There is no life here. No one wants this place." But still, we stop and stare. Who lived here? Who planted those roses? Where are they now? What happened to them?

Every town has a few houses like this, but the city of Detroit, Michigan, has far more than its share. Detroit's 138.8 square miles include thousands of abandoned homes (some estimate as many as 12,000 at any given time - enough for a small city of people to live in). It has thousands more empty lots where homes once stood, where they were burned and then bulldozed into their own basements. Detroit was once home to more than 2 million people, but now it has a population of less than half that. It is a city missing a million souls. Like each old, abandoned house, Detroit seems to say, "Move along. There's nothing here." But still you stop and stare. Who lived here? Where are they now? What happened to this place?

Imagine growing up in a nice, safe neighborhood with well-tended houses and neighbors who look out for one another. After high school, you leave your neighborhood for years to travel around the world. When you return, you find that many of your neighbors have moved away. Some of their homes sit empty, while others are occupied by criminals or drug dealers. It's no longer safe for kids to play on the playgrounds. Packs of wild dogs roam freely. People come from other neighborhoods and even other cities to dump truckloads of garbage into abandoned buildings or right in the middle of the street. The neighborhood factories, warehouses and businesses are mostly closed and covered in graffiti.

 Zoom-in
Image 2. Photo of Detroit artist Tyree Guyton from the mid-1990s. Photo: Carptrash/Wikimedia. [click to enlarge]

That's pretty much what happened to Tyree Guyton, who grew up on Heidelberg Street on Detroit's east side. When he returned home after a stint with the Army, Tyree said it looked like a bomb had gone off in his neighborhood. From the front porch of his grandfather's house in 1986, Tyree said he heard the "soft crying of a wounded city." Many people had moved elsewhere. Violence, crime and racial tensions had driven them to suburbs where they no longer had to live in large, multifamily homes - each family could have its own small home on its own lot. Many of the jobs in the auto factories that had provided Detroiters with steady, high-paying work were now done by machines. Factories, like people, had moved out to distant suburbs where land was cheap. The government tore down neighborhoods to build highways that sped people, and jobs, out of the city. In many neighborhoods, the only people left were those too stubborn or too poor to leave.

Rather than move himself, or despair, Tyree Guyton vowed to do something about the problems that faced his neighborhood and his city. Tyree thought of his grandfather, a painter of houses and buildings who'd lived on Heidelberg Street since 1947. When Tyree was 9 years old, his grandfather put a paintbrush in his hand and taught him to bring what was cold and drab to life with vibrant color. And so Tyree, now 62, set out with a paintbrush to turn what many called "blight" into something else entirely.


Image 3. The "Penny Car" from the Heidelberg Project in 2012. Photo: David Yarnall/Wikimedia.

Tyree's grandfather loved jellybeans, and jellybeans had always reminded Tyree of people: different colors on the outside, but essentially the same within. Tyree considered the jellybean a symbol, and when rendered with Tyree's paintbrush it became a colorful polka dot. Tyree painted thousands of polka dots on his grandfather's house. Different-colored dots began appearing on vacant houses, sidewalks, and streets. Slowly, the color spread into other neighborhoods. Every abandoned house or building received a human-sized dot. Nearly a quarter-century later, many of the thousands of abandoned homes in Detroit still bloom with the colorful dots painted by Tyree Guyton.

But he did not stop with dots. Enlisting the help of his beloved grandfather, his wife, and neighborhood children, Tyree walked up and down the streets and alleys of his neighborhood, dragging discarded objects back to Heidelberg Street. In his beat-up old pickup, they scoured other neighborhoods for junk left in vacant houses and lots. Patterns began to emerge: things that were left behind on one block were often the same on the next. Tyree amassed vast collections of old-fashioned vacuum cleaners, television sets, telephones, women's shoes, suitcases, baby dolls, and stuffed animals. Tyree piled and arranged them in vacant lots, nailed them to vacant houses and dead trees. These household items were rescued from empty homes and the stories of the owners who'd abandoned them to become part of a bigger story told by Tyree's art. It was the story of Detroit, a city left behind, and Tyree Guyton had brought that story out into the streets.


Image 4. Street view of the Heidelberg Project in 2009. Photo: Carlos Osorio/AP.

Not everyone liked what Tyree was doing. Some didn't like his paintings. Others didn't like the cars and even tour buses full of rubberneckers that had started to creep along Heidelberg Street. Stuffed animals nailed to trees started to smell; once they'd resembled beloved cartoon characters, but rain and harsh winters melted them into a sludgy anonymity. Several residents of the neighborhood viewed the piles of objects not as art but trash. They called it dangerous. They said Tyree was a vandal, not an artist, arguing that Heidelberg Street was now nothing more than extraordinary blight. In 1991 (and again in 1999) the city government sent in bulldozers to destroy some of Tyree's larger piled objects and several abandoned houses that had become part of the project. By 1999, Tyree was a world-renowned artist and his lawyers argued in a court case that Tyree's work was art, protected under the U.S. Constitution. The city argued that the piles of shoes and purses hanging from trees were safety hazards and certainly not art. But the court agreed with Tyree. According to the law, at least, this was art.

Since the bulldozers last rolled through, the Heidelberg Project has flourished. Now, 275,000 people visit the project every year; it has become one of Detroit's top tourist attractions. The street and its homes are an ever-changing canvas. Imagine you are visiting Detroit today: You walk through a neighborhood where only a few houses remain. Some are occupied; others sit with their doors wide open, the scars of recent fires on their walls and roofs, years of neglect leaving them gloomy and gray. Soon every abandoned building you see is decorated by a brightly painted dot. You are getting close. A male pheasant with his colorful plumage darts across your path and flies low into a prairie where a whole block of houses once stood. In the distance you see another flash of color: doors painted blue and red and orange are piled precariously on top of each other. A hundred colorful faces painted on old car hoods watch you arrive. A sign welcomes you to the Heidelberg Project, but your eyes are too busy to read it. Everywhere there is color, everywhere there is something new and unexpected to see: a house painted with a hundred clocks, another guarded by five metal robots, a dead tree with half a dozen shopping carts dangling from its limbs 50 feet in the air. And there, in the middle of it all, is a man climbing out of a pickup truck. The truck has a bumper sticker with a single blue circle against a background of white. This is Tyree Guyton. He might have been in Paris or Berlin last week, sharing his story with the world, but today he is right here, still pulling objects he's found on the street from the back of his truck, still painting circles on houses where people no longer live. You can walk right up and ask him, "Is this just junk, or is it art?" and he'll probably just smile and suggest you walk around the project and decide for yourself.


Image 5. Welcome sign for the Heidelberg Project in 2011. Photo: Michigan Municipal League/Flickr.

You might not be used to thinking of a pile of shoes or an old boat filled with stuffed animals as art, but there is something about this place. The colors are dizzying. Purses dangle from trees like strange vines. There are children playing here. The drug dealers moved out a long time ago. Suburban people walk around a neighborhood they might have been afraid to drive through years ago. There are tourists with cameras from all across the world. This is not a dead place. This place is very much alive - and it's still evolving. In August 2016, Guyton announced that he'll be dismantling some of the smaller, less prominent installations on Heidelberg Street. They'll be removed to make room for Heidelberg 3.0, a new vision to transform the project into a community center and a self-sustaining arts and culture village featuring an artist in residence program, a new studio and gallery for emerging artists, and an education and event space for neighborhood events and youth programming.
In the 1960s, the country asked itself that if young men can die in Vietnam, then shouldn't they be trusted with the right to vote? Similarly now, we must ask ourselves that if 16- and 17-year-olds can contribute to society through work, and face the criminal justice system as adults, isn't it only reasonable to allow them the right of self-determination through voting?

In these teen years, many individuals begin to work and pay taxes. This is also when we grant the right to drive a car. On the flip side, about 250,000 youth are tried, sentenced or incarcerated as adults every year across the U.S. When they're contributing to society or being held liable by society in these ways, they should also be able to weigh in on the future of our country and those responsible for the laws that affect them.

That's why it was great to see freshman Representative Joe Neguse, a Democrat from Colorado, lead an effort that allows 16- and 17-year-olds to preregister to vote ahead of their 18th birthday. This policy has already worked in many states: 14 states (and Washington, D.C.) already allow teenagers to preregister to vote at 16, and nine allow it for 17-year-olds.

In California alone, since 2016, more than 200,000 teenagers preregistered before their 18th birthdays.

Congress only has the authority to lower the voting age for federal elections. That's what sparked the 26th Amendment, which in 1971 lowered the voting age in every election to 18.

Freshman Representative Ayanna Pressley, a Democrat from Massachusetts, proposed lowering the voting age from 18 to 16 for federal elections. The proposal failed with only 126 votes but represented a turning point in the fight for enfranchisement. It had the support of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has championed such efforts at the local level in California for years.

Because voter turnout is habitual, it seems like a no-brainer to let people start voting at a younger age. If 16- and 17-year-olds can go to the polls with their parents or other adult figures, it could begin a lifetime of such civic engagement.

Lowering the voting age is a worthy endeavor. Let's do it.

David de la Fuente is a political analyst at Third Way, a center-left think tank.

What Others Are Saying:
Teens Are Unreliable
Teens more often rely on the amygdala, the more emotional, primitive part of the brain. It isn't from gratuitous animus that car-rental agencies make it difficult for young drivers to rent a vehicle. Or that the Constitution establishes 25 as the minimum age to be a member of Congress. Of course, another reason that 16-year-olds are subject to so many restrictions that don't apply to grown-ups is that they don't know anything - or in any case, they don't know enough to be trusted to make sound decisions about liquor, firearms, joining the Marines and governing the United States. The ignorance of teens is practically a cliché.

Jeff Jacoby is a politically conservative columnist for the Boston Globe.

Teens Don't Make Bad Choices Any More Than Adults Do
Cold cognitive abilities are those we use when we are in a calm situation, when we are by ourselves and have time to deliberate and when the most important skill is the ability to reason logically with facts. Voting is a good example of this sort of situation. Studies of cold cognition have shown that the skills necessary to make informed decisions are firmly in place by 16. By that age, adolescents can gather and process information, weigh pros and cons, reason logically with facts and take time before making a decision. Teenagers may sometimes make bad choices, but statistically speaking, they do not make them any more often than adults do.

Laurence Steinberg is a professor of psychology at Temple University and a contributor to The New York Times.

Young Voters Can Establish Patterns For A Lifetime
In (America) people start voting at 18. That's the year that they often move off to college. They either have to cast ballots in a community with which they're unfamiliar, or pay attention to elections in a place where they no longer reside. That's a recipe for indifference. It would be much easier to encourage people to vote for the first time, and to establish voting patterns for a lifetime, when they're 16 and in high school. One objection is that young people will just vote like their parents. But researchers have found that people are always influenced by those close to them. People of all ages vote like their parents, or like their spouses or like their neighbors.

Noah Berlatsky is a writer and editor who writes about gender and culture.
Are we doomed to read distractedly in the digital age? Technology seems to deter slow, immersive reading. Scrolling down a web page with your thumb feels innately less attentive than turning over the pages of a book. Reading on a screen, particularly a phone screen, tires your eyes and makes it harder for you to keep your place. So online writing tends to be more skimmable and list-like than print. At the top of a web article, we are now often told how long it will detain us, forewarned that the words below are a "15-minute read." The online reader's put-down is TL;DR. Too long; didn't read.

The cognitive neuroscientist Maryanne Wolf argued recently that this "new norm" of skim reading is producing "an invisible, game-changing transformation" in how readers process words. The neuronal circuit that underpins the brain's capacity to read now favors the rapid ingestion of information, rather than skills fostered by deeper reading, like critical analysis and empathy.

We shouldn't overplay these dangers. All readers skim. Skimming is the skill we acquire as children as we learn to read more sophisticatedly. From about the age of 9, our eyes start to bounce around the page, reading only about a quarter of the words properly, and filling in the gaps by inference. One of the little miracles of silent reading is that we can do it so quickly and yet also subvocalize, semi-hearing the words in our heads. Skimming is all part of that virtuoso human act.

Nor is there anything new in these fears about declining attention spans. So far, the anxieties have proved false alarms. "Quite a few critics have been worried about attention span lately and see very short stories as signs of cultural decadence - bonbons for lazy readers," the American author Charles Baxter wrote back in 1989, in an introduction to an anthology of flash fiction. "No one ever said that sonnets or haikus were evidence of short attention spans."

And yet the Internet has certainly changed the way we read. For a start, it means that there is more to read, because more people than ever are writing. If you time-traveled just a few decades into the past, you would wonder at how little writing was happening, outside a classroom. There would be no people sitting in coffee shops urgently stabbing their laptops with two fingers, or updating the social network with the headline news of their lives. You might see the odd person signing a cheque or penciling in an appointment in their Filofax. But mostly writing would be farmed out to professionals, and appear only in print.

In the analog era, writing was read much later than it was written. Digital writing is meant for rapid release and response. A text or tweet is a slightly interrupted, virtual way of having a conversation. An online article starts forming a comment thread underneath as soon as it is published. This mode of writing and reading can be democratic, interactive and fun. But often it treats other people's words as something to be quickly harvested as fodder to say something else. Everyone talks over the top of everyone else, straining to be heard.

"A poem is an interruption of silence, whereas prose is a continuation of noise," the poet Billy Collins once said. Poets and lyrically minded prose writers see the written word rather as Quaker worship sees the spoken word: They think it more powerful if it emerges out of and is separated by silence. Writing and reading online, we struggle to find this silence out of which words can materialize and be contemplated. There is too much speaking and reacting, and not enough listening and reflecting.

Perhaps we should slow down. We hear a lot today about recovering the lost virtues of slowness - by, for instance, spending time on locally sourcing and preparing a meal, or leaving children to explore the world unsupervised and at their own pace. But the slow reading movement has yet to take off in the same way. Reading is constantly promoted as a social good and source of personal fulfillment. But this advocacy often emphasizes "avid," "passionate" or "voracious" reading - none of which adjectives suggest slow, quiet absorption.

Lately, I have been trying - with difficulty, because I am by nature a grazer and skimmer - to read more slowly. I trace the margin with my finger as I read, like a learner-reader, so I can pause and think about what I have just read and not lose my place. And I often read aloud, or at least move my lips, even if that means getting some odd looks in public places. Reading aloud slows you down and obliges you to notice the words, to start giving them the kind of attention the writer gave them. That is how Shakespeare would have been taught to read and write at grammar school - rote learning the art of verbal ornament, getting to know how the words themselves felt in the mouth before they calcified into sense and logic.

Online writing is often designed to be mined for its "take home" or "takeaway" lesson, or perhaps its "take down" of another piece. Most below-the-line comments focus on whether the commenter agrees with the writer. It rarely mentions what a piece of writing was actually like to read.

To a slow reader, the medium can't be detached from its message in this way. A piece of writing is not simply a "take" on something, but a rhetorical exercise in pace, rhythm, tone, texture and voice. Ultimately it is irreducible to precis or paraphrase. It can only be fully understood by immersing oneself in the words and their slow unraveling of a line of thought. The slow reader is like a swimmer who stops counting the number of pool laps they have done and just enjoys how their body feels and moves in water.

Slow reading feels to me like a more generous, collegiate form of reading - rather as listening is a more generous act than speaking, and more difficult. Slow reading gives someone else (the writer) the gift of your time, without any guaranteed return, and with the risk that you will be bored or discomforted by the writing's strangeness or difficulty. Slow reading is a gradual encounter with the obdurate otherness of another person's mind. Like any such encounter, it should take as long as it takes and be its own end.

The human need for this kind of deep reading is too tenacious for any new technology to destroy. We often assume that technological change happens inexorably and in one direction, so that older media like "dead-tree" books are shoved out by newer, more virtual forms. In practice, older technologies are quite resilient and can coexist with new ones. The Kindle has not killed off the printed book any more than the car killed off the bicycle.

When digital TV arrived 20 years ago, most people thought that viewers would zap quickly through the hundreds of channels and television would have to be fast and loud to keep their attention. In fact, the great success of the digital era has been long, multi-stranded box-set dramas that demand huge intellectual and emotional commitment from viewers. As with deep viewing, the hunger for deep reading endures. We still read intricate, involving novels. We still seek out layered, contemplative writing online that resists the impulse to reduce itself to glibly articulate opinion. We still want to savor slowly gestated ideas and carefully chosen words. Even in a fast-moving age, there is time for slow reading.

Joe Moran is a professor of English and cultural history at Liverpool John Moores University. He is the author of "Armchair Nation: An Intimate History of Britain in Front of the Television."
Has anyone ever told you not to Google something? Have they told you to think for yourself instead? I know I've heard that, but I've never really given it much thought. As someone who has grown up hearing "Figure it out!" and "Don't look it up!" I wasn't surprised to find that this advice isn't unreasonable and is for my own good. It's only normal for children to not believe all the advice given to them, but this could be something that I might keep in mind when I'm tempted to turn to a search engine for answers. It also leads me to wonder how far to extend this: Should all of us limit our use of technology?

The Internet = Distractions
Nicholas Carr, the author of "The Shallows: What the Internet Is Doing to Our Brains," says that yes, we should take some time away from screens. He has good reason to recommend that. As a frequent Google user, like many of us are, he believes that the Internet does not improve our intelligence or our thoughts. According to Carr, "Deep thinking, brain scientists have discovered, happens only when our minds are calm and attentive."

With all the distractions that come with the Internet, I understand that focus is difficult to grasp. There are ads and messages that prevent your mind from concentrating on the task at hand. On top of all the notifications and advertisements that bombard your screen, there's also the tendency to start surfing on websites from one topic to another, until you don't remember why you were ever on Google in the first place.

As someone who uses the Internet on a daily basis, I know what it's like to look up a question as simple as "When was the Great Wall of China built?" and minutes later find myself skimming through information about World War I without a second thought. I think some people might not even notice when they start mindlessly sifting through useless facts when they should be finishing up that slideshow project due next week. Our digital generation uses the Internet as a second brain, going through article after article like it's in our blood.

It's as if the Internet is a bug that simply won't go away. It overtakes our thoughts, even when we're not using technology, and we become accustomed to checking for alerts and information. Matt Richtel wrote an article, called "Attached to Technology and Paying a Price," in which he describes the toll that technology takes on us. He mentions that most computer users switch between tabs and webpages almost every two minutes!

Surely there are more productive things that could be done using the time that we spend skimming across pages. There's so much temptation when all this information is laid out in front of you, it creates an impulse to scour through it all, causing our minds to slowly drift away from our main task.

How Technology Affects Our Memory
Some might say that sites such as Google have positive effects on their users. While it's true that the Internet gives us answers quicker and typically more reliably than searching through a textbook, it's not something to get into a habit of doing. There have been many times where I've forgotten certain dates for school or holidays and gone to Google as an instinct, rather than stopping to rack my brain for it. Of course, it doesn't do much harm to look up a date or definition that you can't seem to remember every once in a while, but the weakness in doing this too often is that we grow used to using the Internet, and we forget things because we have so many of these answers and websites that we don't need to memorize them, since they're always at the tip of our fingers.

In "Cognitive Offloading: How the Internet is Changing the Human Brain," Philip Perry discusses issues affecting our memory's capacity brought on by search engines. He explains that a test was conducted that consisted of two groups, both of which were asked questions. One of the groups couldn't use any sort of device to answer these questions and had to rely on memory alone. The other group was allowed to use Google if they wished. Lead author Benjamin Storm claims that the group that had access to their smartphones immediately went to the Internet, even when answering simple questions, and didn't even try to answer from memory. The group that was deprived of their devices were quicker overall at answering trivia questions because they didn't reach for their smartphones. Is the Internet slowly diminishing our memory capacity, or just changing our brains so that we are becoming more reliant on technology to the point where we don't even attempt to think individually when faced with a question?

Everyone knows that the Internet makes problem-solving immensely easier. There's no denying that much. But is it too easy? No, I don't just mean for yourself. I mean for everyone around you. 

Technology Can Affect Learning
David Price, a guest blogger on a website called techaddiction, raises the concern that teaching and helping others may be getting easier with the assistance of Google. He claims that decades ago, when children needed help with homework, it could have been difficult for parents without the Internet to back them up. This led me to think about how schools drill all these equations into our memory even when there's always a calculator app in our back pockets.

Why should adults and teenagers have to remember all that from years ago when they could turn to Google instead? Part of this is just being prepared. The Internet won't always be there. What you can rely on is your memory. The reason we have to at least attempt to use our minds for problem-solving is so that we don't forget how to.

Imagine if there came a day when you were deprived of smartphones, and you completely forgot how to solve problems on your own. Wouldn't that be disastrous? This doesn't just apply to older generations, either. It's for anyone who finds themselves in situations in which they have to use their mind to think and process and get through something that requires deep thinking. If we always turn to calculators and websites for answers to everything, we'll never learn anything on our own.

An example of how reliant we are on technology is when my class had a math test and we were allowed to use calculators. Every student had a calculator available to them, and most of us used it every opportunity we could get. The thing is, everyone in that room was capable of solving each problem on that test. What made me use the calculator for questions that I know I can answer alone was the fact that I had it in my hands, and I didn't want to take the risk of doing something wrong. The Internet is like that, too. We know the answers to many of the questions we search, we just take advantage of the fact that those same answers are right at our fingertips, and no one wants to be wrong.

I'm aware that there are multiple ways to use technology, and perhaps not all of them are negative. Though adults and children use the same type of devices, the difference between the content you'll find on these devices is drastic, and it all comes down to age. 

When looking through an adult's phone, you'll likely find that they use apps such as the calendar, notes, reminders, news articles and other productive apps and websites. When looking through an adolescent or teenager's phone, such as my own, you'll probably find that the apps my friends and I use often are for messages, games and streaming sites, such as YouTube and Netflix. 

I understand that the problems regarding technology are only really prominent when it is used in a certain way. Though technology can have positive effects, those positives don't cancel out the negatives. To avoid using technology in a harmful way, we can delete or use fewer of those apps which won't help us improve in the future. I hope that, someday, the gap between teenagers' and adults' smartphones will lessen, and we can learn to use the Internet for productivity, not just enjoyment.

I'm convinced that technology is not as detrimental to our productivity as many people say. However, it's not the solution to every problem. We have to change how we use our devices and be able to live in the real world.

It's time to take a step back in the world of technology and remember to step outside and breathe every once in a while. There are things we can do that help us take a break from our devices, such as reading for all the bookworms in the world, or drawing for the artists or playing sports for the athletes.

Take your time to find your hobbies and talents, and go out to exercise something other than your fingers. This generation may have been born into a digital world, but we can take small steps to set the next generation up for success, and we can start by teaching them how to use technology productively and responsibly.

Julienne Vicente is an 11-year-old middle schooler who lives in San Diego, California. She uses technology daily. However, she still finds ways to spend her time with her friends and family. And there's always time to read a book or go outside.