An abstract is a one- (or occasionally two-) page summary of a paper intended for presentation
at an academic conference. The abstract is sent to the programme committee responsible for
choosing papers to be presented at the conference. The committee evaluates your abstract
alongside other submissions, and decides entirely on the basis of the abstract whether or not your
paper should be accepted. Sometimes the committee will evaluate papers from all (or any)
subfields covered by the conference; alternatively, your abstract may be sent out to a specialist
in that particular subfield. The likelihood is that a number of abstracts submitted to any given
conference will be rejected: for instance, the rejection rate for the two most general linguistics
conferences in the UK and the USA (respectively the Linguistics Association of Great Britain
and the Linguistic Society of America) is around 50%. Obviously, the rejection rate at a
postgraduate conference may be lower, but this does not mean that all abstracts will be accepted.
Abstracts are typically submitted anonymously, that is with a title but not the author’s name or
institution, although a version including the author’s name may subsequently be printed in the
book of abstracts for the meeting in question.
The abstract is your first chance to promote your work to the linguistic public. It should be a short
summary of a paper you are (or will soon be) prepared to give in public. The abstract is intended
to cover both the main point(s) and conclusion(s) of the paper, and the arguments used to reach
these conclusions. Before you begin writing, the most important task is to know what you are intending to
talk about, should your paper be accepted. It may be the case that you already have a
written version of the talk, in other wordsthat the paper will coversome piece of research
that you have already undertaken. In this case, your abstract can summarize the existing
paper. More often, you will have started the research but do not yet have a written paper.
Plan the topic carefully, delimiting it to something that can be talked about in the allotted
time at the conference.